Sunsetting k8s support for PostHog (#5073)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/sunsetting-helm-support-posthog.md

---
date: 2023-01-05
title: "Sunsetting Kubernetes support for PostHog"
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
author: ["tim-glaser"]
featuredImage: ../images/blog/green-blog-image.jpg
featuredImageType: full
categories: ["posthog-news"]
---

We're sunsetting support for our Kubernetes deployment for PostHog. Because we're an open source company, I want to be transparent about what this change means, and why we're making it. Around 3.5% of PostHog users currently use this type of deployment.

## What changes

> We'll no longer be providing regular updates to our Helm chart. We'll also no longer be selling the Enterprise Self-Hosted plan. For at least the next 12 months we'll continue to provide security updates on the last available version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll no longer provide regular updates to our Helm chart. We'll also no longer sell the Enterprise Self-Hosted plan. We will continue to provide security updates on the last available version for at least the next 12 months.
```

> If you're currently using k8s to deploy PostHog, you have three options.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you're currently using Kubernetes to deploy PostHog, you have three options.
```

The easiest option is to [migrate to PostHog Cloud]. We'll take care of everything, and it often works out much cheaper. For folks who had to self host to keep their data in the EU, we now offer PostHog EU Cloud. 

You can also continue using PostHog as you are now. We'll still provide security updates. Unfortunately we'll no longer be able to provide community support for Kubernetes deployments. If you're a paid customer using Kubernetes, we'll contact you separately.

If you have smaller volumes, you can migrate to our Docker deployment option. [PROVIDE LINK] It's much simpler to set up and manage.

> There will no longer be numbered releases of PostHog. Instead, we'll build a Docker image for each commit that happens in our GitHub repo. Just like on PostHog Cloud, folks using our Docker deployment can benefit immediately from new features and bugfixes. They'll also be able to pin a version or roll back where necessary.

Author: Yeah I think we should drop these and just provide a slow sync option for docker (similar to when you're developing locally I guess?)

> There will no longer be numbered releases of PostHog. Instead, we'll build a Docker image for each commit that happens in our GitHub repo. Just like on PostHog Cloud, folks using our Docker deployment can benefit immediately from new features and bugfixes. They'll also be able to pin a version or roll back where necessary.

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure what you mean here. If I'm developing locally and things don't work or if there's a complex data migration the suggestion would be nuke it and start from scratch

> There will no longer be numbered releases of PostHog. Instead, we'll build a Docker image for each commit that happens in our GitHub repo. Just like on PostHog Cloud, folks using our Docker deployment can benefit immediately from new features and bugfixes. They'll also be able to pin a version or roll back where necessary.

Author: Ah I guess I misunderstood how this actually works. I assumed that there was a sync version of every async migration, where we would just do the entire migration syncronously (ie rewrite every event to set person_id) when you run `python manage.py migrate_clickhouse`.

I think a version of that would make sense though. Having the docker be down for a couple of minutes/up to an hour while a migration runs is fine, but having to remove all data isn't.

> There will no longer be numbered releases of PostHog. Instead, we'll build a Docker image for each commit that happens in our GitHub repo. Just like on PostHog Cloud, folks using our Docker deployment can benefit immediately from new features and bugfixes. They'll also be able to pin a version or roll back where necessary.

Reviewer 3: hmm... ok this is a bit more complex (data migrations can't just be a simple add a column, so there needs to be sth like async migrations though could be a lot simpler) - will discuss with the team

> ## Why are we doing this?

Reviewer 4: Agree with this - the Why section should come first, but the last paragraph of that section ('By not having to support...') should be the conclusion to the entire article.

> ## Why are we doing this?

Reviewer: +1

> We realized that our Kubernetes deployment did not work for both our free users and paying customers.

Reviewer 2: I feel like a bit of specificity helps here.

```suggestion
We realized that self-hosting a Kubernetes deployment was too difficult and burdensome for both our free users and our paying customers.
```

> Hosting PostHog at scale is complex. With our kubernetes users, we've seen issues crop up at every part of the stack. In event ingestion, Kafka, Clickhouse, Postgres, Redis and within the application itself. Sometimes the fix is simple ("increase disk space"), but often the issue is something a couple of layers deep and very hard to debug, involving long calls with expensive engineers on both sides.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Hosting PostHog at scale is complex. With our Kubernetes users, we've seen issues crop up at every part of the stack. In event ingestion, Kafka, Clickhouse, Postgres, Redis and within the application itself. Sometimes the fix is simple ("increase disk space"), but often the issue is something a couple of layers deep and very hard to debug, involving long calls with expensive engineers on both sides.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hosting PostHog at scale is complex. With our Kubernetes users, we've seen issues crop up in every part of the stack. In event ingestion, Kafka, ClickHouse, Postgres, Redis and within the application itself. Sometimes the fix is simple ("increase disk space"), but often the issue is something a couple of layers deep and very hard to debug, involving long calls with expensive engineers on both sides.
```

Reviewer: Is it worth mentioning partners here? That we tried working with them, impact on them, etc

> When we launched our kubernetes deploy, we were hoping we could get to a stage where we battle tested enough of the components, and where we managed to automate enough that we could make self hosting and scaling PostHog seamless, with a minimum amount of effort.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When we launched our Kubernetes deploy, we were hoping we could get to a stage where we battle tested enough of the components, and where we managed to automate enough that we could make self hosting and scaling PostHog seamless, with a minimum amount of effort.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When we launched our Kubernetes deployment, we were hoping we could get to a stage where we battle tested enough of the components, and where we managed to automate enough that we could make self hosting and scaling PostHog seamless, with a minimum amount of effort.
```

> The reality is that the tools to do that automation just doesn't exist. We kept finding new failure modes. When onboarding a new customer we would have to vet their engineering team for Kubernetes experience so that we'd be confident they could help us debug issues in their PostHog deploy. Folks that didn't have infra experience would often be able to get something set up, only to get stuck when something went wrong.

Reviewer 2: I feel like this would be easier to read as a "lessons learned" type thing. Eg. 

"Our goal was to...

In the end, we learned that 1) ... 2) ..."

Reviewer: I'd move this section up and expand it. We should be really clear that it was extra work for us AND a worse, slower experience for users.

Author: I took a stab at this but not 100% what you meant here. LMK if more feedback!

We're a small infrastructure team, and as more and more customers moved to PostHog Cloud or our open source Docker deployment, we were spending an outsized amount of engineering time supporting that 3.5% of users.

> By not having to support Kubernetes, we free up a lot of time to focus on our main priorities, which are PostHog Cloud and the open source Docker deployment. Ultimately, this will lead to a better experience for the vast majority of our users.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By not having to support Kubernetes, we free up a lot of time to focus on our main infrastructure priorities, which are PostHog Cloud and the open source Docker deployment. Ultimately, this will lead to a better experience for the vast majority of our users.
```

lest someone think that building saas infra is the only main priority :)

Reviewer 4: Do we want to include something here about other compliance goals for PostHog Cloud?  A big one which comes to mind is HIPAA.  If we call out that specifically it will show a path for migration to all of our cutomers who currently _have_ to self-host.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By not supporting Kubernetes, we will free up a lot of time to focus on our main infrastructure priorities, which are PostHog Cloud and the open source Docker deployment. Ultimately, this will lead to a better experience for the vast majority of our users.
```

Author: We're figuring out HIPAA right now

---
date: 2023-01-05
title: "Sunsetting Kubernetes support for PostHog"
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
author: ["tim-glaser"]
featuredImage: ../images/blog/green-blog-image.jpg
featuredImageType: full
categories: ["posthog-news"]
---

> We're sunsetting support for our Kubernetes deployment for PostHog. Because we're an open source company, I want to be transparent about what this change means, and why we're making it. Around 3.5% of PostHog users currently use this type of deployment.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
We're sunsetting support for our Kubernetes deployment for PostHog. Because we're an open source company, I want to be transparent about what this change means, and why we're making it. Around 3.5% of PostHog users currently use this type of deployment. We will continue to support the docker deployment of PostHog.
```

By not supporting Kubernetes, we will free up a lot of time to focus on our main infrastructure priorities, which are PostHog Cloud and the open source Docker deployment. Ultimately, this will lead to a better experience for the vast majority of our users.

## What changes

We'll no longer provide regular updates to our Helm chart after May 2023. We'll also no longer sell the Enterprise Self-Hosted plan. We will continue to provide security updates on the last available version for at least the next 12 months.

If you're currently using Kubernetes to deploy PostHog, you have three options.

The easiest option is to [migrate to PostHog Cloud](/docs/migrate/migrate-between-cloud-and-self-hosted). PostHog Cloud ensures you always have the latest features and often works out much cheaper too. For folks who had to self host to keep their data in the EU, we now offer [PostHog EU Cloud](/eu). 

You can also continue using PostHog as you are now. We'll still provide security updates for at least the next 12 months. Unfortunately we'll no longer be provide community support for Kubernetes deployments. If you're a paid customer using Kubernetes, we'll contact you shortly.

> If you have smaller volumes, you can migrate to our Docker deployment option. [PROVIDE LINK] It's much simpler to set up and manage.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
If you have smaller volumes, you can migrate to our [Docker deployment option](https://posthog.com/docs/self-host/open-source/deployment). It's much simpler to set up and manage.
```

---
date: 2023-01-05
title: "Sunsetting Kubernetes support for PostHog"
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
author: ["tim-glaser"]

> featuredImage: ../images/blog/green-blog-image.jpg

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
featuredImage: ../images/blog/posthog-ceo-diary-blog.png
```

featuredImageType: full
category: PostHog news
tags:
  - Product updates
---

We're sunsetting support for our Kubernetes deployment for PostHog. Because we're an open source company, I want to be transparent about what this change means, and why we're making it. Around 3.5% of PostHog users currently use this type of deployment. We will continue to support the docker deployment of PostHog.

## Why are we doing this?

We realized that self-hosting a Kubernetes deployment was too difficult and burdensome for both our free users and our paying customers.

> When we launched our Kubernetes deploy, we were hoping we could get to a stage where we battle tested enough of the components. We hoped that we could automate enough to make self hosting and scaling PostHog seamless, with a minimum amount of effort.

Author: This is feedback on most of your suggestions, and apologies for this being direct: You've taken something written in my tone and changed it into something much more corporate feeling, and not how I'd write this. Do you think this announcement needs that veneer of corporate?

> When we launched our Kubernetes deploy, we were hoping we could get to a stage where we battle tested enough of the components. We hoped that we could automate enough to make self hosting and scaling PostHog seamless, with a minimum amount of effort.

Reviewer: Personal feeling is that this should be in Tim's tone as much as possible. If we want to do a more direct company version we can spin up an FAQ page and link to that. Which isn't a bad idea, but I'd like to just send people to one page if we can, rather than two.

> When we launched our Kubernetes deploy, we were hoping we could get to a stage where we battle tested enough of the components. We hoped that we could automate enough to make self hosting and scaling PostHog seamless, with a minimum amount of effort.

Reviewer 6: @timgl No need to apologize. They're suggestions for a reason and I think you're right. Feel free to resolve any suggestions you don't want to use. I suppose the only stuff we definitely need to add is details RE: SOC 2 / HIPAA?

@joethreepwood To your point, maybe we just have an FAQ at the bottom of Tim's post. Keeps everything on one page but also scannable for anyone who wants to skip to the action points?

> Hosting PostHog at scale is complex. With our Kubernetes users, we've seen issues crop up in every part of the stack. In event ingestion, Kafka, ClickHouse, Postgres, Redis and within the application itself. Sometimes the fix is simple ("increase disk space"), but often the issue is something a couple of layers deep and very hard to debug, involving long calls with expensive engineers on both sides. Even something as simple as a full disk would cause their instance of PostHog to be down for hours or days.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Hosting PostHog at scale is complex. With our Kubernetes users, we've seen issues crop up in every part of the stack. In event ingestion, Kafka, ClickHouse, Postgres, Redis and within the application itself. Sometimes the fix is simple ("increase disk space"), but often the issue is something a couple of layers deep and very hard to debug, involving long calls with expensive engineers on both sides. Even something as simple as a full disk would cause instances of PostHog to be down for hours or days.
```

We also learned that the tools to do that automation just doesn't exist. We kept finding new failure modes. When onboarding a new customer we would have to vet their engineering team for Kubernetes experience so that we'd be confident they could help us debug issues in their PostHog deploy. Folks that didn't have infra experience would often be able to get something set up, only to get stuck when something went wrong.

We're a small infrastructure team, and as more and more customers moved to PostHog Cloud or our open source Docker deployment, we were spending an outsized amount of engineering time supporting that 3.5% of users.

By not supporting Kubernetes, we will free up a lot of time to focus on our main infrastructure priorities, which are PostHog Cloud and the open source Docker deployment. Ultimately, this will lead to a better experience for the vast majority of our users.

> ## What changes

Reviewer 5: Can we be a bit more vague on the HIPAA date? Likely to be sooner than the end of 2023 (i.e. q2/q3) but we can't promise it

```
- Will be making our cloud HIPAA compliant and will provide security updates until then. To get updates on this send us an email to [hey@posthog.com](hey@posthog.com).
```

> We'll no longer provide regular updates to our Helm chart after May 2023. We'll also no longer sell the Enterprise Self-Hosted plan. We will continue to provide security updates on the last available version for at least the next 12 months.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Like our paying customers, regular updates to our Helm chart will cease after May 21, 2023 for our free customers. You'll also receive security updates for at least the next 12 months, but we can no longer provide you with free community support.
```

> If you're currently using Kubernetes to deploy PostHog, you have three options.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
PostHog users on Kubernetes have three options:
```

> The easiest option is to [migrate to PostHog Cloud](/docs/migrate/migrate-between-cloud-and-self-hosted). PostHog Cloud ensures you always have the latest features and often works out much cheaper too. For folks who had to self host to keep their data in the EU, we now offer [PostHog EU Cloud](/eu). 
> 
> You can also continue using PostHog as you are now. We'll still provide security updates for at least the next 12 months. Unfortunately we'll no longer be provide community support for Kubernetes deployments. If you're a paid customer using Kubernetes, we'll contact you shortly.
> 
> If you have smaller volumes, you can migrate to our [Docker deployment option](https://posthog.com/docs/self-host/open-source/deployment). It's much simpler to set up and manage.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
1. **[Migrate to PostHog Cloud](/docs/migrate/migrate-between-cloud-and-self-hosted)** – PostHog Cloud ensures you always have the latest features and often works out much cheaper too. For folks who had to self host to keep their data in the EU, we now offer [PostHog EU Cloud](/eu). 

2. **[Migrate to Docker deployment](/docs/self-host/open-source/deployment)** – Docker deployment is suitable for smaller event volumes and it's much simpler to set up and manage.

3. **Continue on Kubernetes** – You can also continue using PostHog on Kubernetes. As noted already, we'll still provide security updates for at least the next 12 months, but you won't benefit from new features or technical support after May 31.
```

> There will no longer be numbered releases of PostHog. Instead, we'll build a Docker image for each commit that happens in our GitHub repo. Just like on PostHog Cloud, folks using our Docker deployment can benefit immediately from new features and bugfixes. They'll also be able to pin a version or roll back where necessary.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Finally, there will no longer be numbered releases of PostHog. Instead, we'll build a Docker image for each commit that happens in our GitHub repo. 

Just like on PostHog Cloud, folks using our Docker deployment can benefit immediately from new features and bugfixes. They'll also be able to pin a version or roll back where necessary.
```

> 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion

Thank you to everyone who continues to support and contribute to PostHog. We've come a long way from James and I bootstrapping our way to an MVP just two years ago and we [continue to grow and learn](/blog/2022-review) at pace. 

We'll continue to build in public and work transparently, and I highly recommend you check out [our public roadmap](/roadmap) to see and feedback on the exciting things we're building right now.

– Tim Glaser, Co-founder and CTO
```
